Port MASTG-TEST-0068 (iOS Certificate Pinning) to v2 (#3732)
OWASP/mastg: best-practices/MASTG-BEST-0x01.md

```xml
<key>NSAppTransportSecurity</key>
<dict>
    <key>NSPinnedDomains</key>
    <dict>
        <key>example.com</key>
        <dict>
            <key>NSIncludesSubdomains</key>
            <true/>
            <key>NSPinnedCAIdentities</key>
            <array>
                <dict>
                    <key>SPKI-SHA256-BASE64</key>
                    <string>+[BASE64-ENCODED SHA-256 HASH OF SUBJECT PUBLIC KEY INFO]</string>
                </dict>
            </array>
        </dict>
    </dict>
</dict>
```

If you need more control, implement pinning in the [`URLSessionDelegate`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/urlsessiondelegate) method [`urlSession(_:didReceive:completionHandler:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/urlsessiondelegate/1409308-urlsession) and perform [manual server trust authentication](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/url_loading_system/handling_an_authentication_challenge/performing_manual_server_trust_authentication).

## Caveats and Considerations

> - **Pin to a CA public key, not a leaf certificate** when possible. Leaf certificates rotate frequently; CA public keys are more stable, avoiding forced app updates on every certificate renewal.

Reviewer: Not sure about it. You are trusting that the CA you’ve pinned will not issue a rogue certificate for your domain.

Here we have an opportunity to not depend on third-party companies/governments. We can issue a cert ourselves and pin to it. Personally, that's what I would prefer over relying on external CA entities.

At least we should say that's a possibility.

Reviewer 2: Thanks! This needs a discussion at the MAS Task Force. I captured it here: https://github.com/OWASP/mastg/issues/3888 and removed it from the suggestion below for now.

> - **Pin to a CA public key, not a leaf certificate** when possible. Leaf certificates rotate frequently; CA public keys are more stable, avoiding forced app updates on every certificate renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Pin to an intermediate public key, not a leaf certificate** when possible. Leaf certificates rotate frequently; intermediate public keys are more stable, avoiding forced app updates on every certificate renewal.
```

- **Always include a backup pin** (a second CA or leaf key) to ensure connectivity if the primary certificate is replaced unexpectedly. Without a backup, a certificate rotation could render the app unable to connect.
- **Manage pin rotation carefully.** Unlike Android's Network Security Configuration, `NSPinnedDomains` doesn't support expiration dates. Plan certificate rotation before pins become stale.
- **Pinning doesn't replace proper TLS configuration.** Ensure the server is using strong cipher suites, up-to-date TLS versions, and valid certificates from trusted CAs.

> - **Pinning can be bypassed** on jailbroken devices or via tools such as [SSL Kill Switch 2](https://github.com/nabla-c0d3/ssl-kill-switch2), and by reverse-engineering and repackaging the app. Complement pinning with other controls such as jailbreak detection and app integrity checks for high-risk scenarios.

Reviewer: That's another thing worth to bring up. It's easier for an attacker to bypass ATS pinning because it depends on system libraries. An attacker can use one tweak to bypass all apps using ATS. If we check the certs inside our code, it's not a generic bypass anymore.

> - **Pinning can be bypassed** on jailbroken devices or via tools such as [SSL Kill Switch 2](https://github.com/nabla-c0d3/ssl-kill-switch2), and by reverse-engineering and repackaging the app. Complement pinning with other controls such as jailbreak detection and app integrity checks for high-risk scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Pinning can be bypassed** on jailbroken devices or via tools such as [SSL Kill Switch 2](https://github.com/nabla-c0d3/ssl-kill-switch2), and by reverse-engineering and repackaging the app. Notably, declarative system pinning (like iOS ATS) is highly vulnerable to generic, single-tweak bypasses because it relies on system libraries. Implementing certificate checks directly inside your code eliminates these universal bypasses, forcing attackers to manually reverse-engineer your specific app. Complement pinning with other controls such as jailbreak detection and app integrity checks for high-risk scenarios.
```
